Explain the differences in using shebang vs scala-cli directly in script (#1740)
VirtusLab/scala-cli: website/docs/guides/shebang.md

---
title: Shebang
sidebar_position: 30
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

import {ChainedSnippets} from "../../src/components/MarkdownComponents.js";

```

> This command is equivalent to `run`, but it changes the way Scala CLI parses arguments in order to be
> compatible with shebang scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide explains the differences between the `run` and `shebang` sub-commands, mainly covering how each of them parses its arguments.
```

> ### In shebang script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `shebang` script headers
```

Before proceeding, let's discuss how `scala-cli` works in a script without the `shebang` command.

> Here is a simple hello script with a shebang header:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a simple `hello.sc` script with a `shebang` header:
```

```scala title=hello.sc
#!/usr/bin/env scala-cli -S 3

println(args.size)
println(args.headOption)
```

> And it almost works correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And it works almost correctly.
```

> ```bash
> ./hello.sc    
> ```
> 
> ```text
> 0
> None
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
<ChainedSnippets>

```bash
./hello.sc    
```

```text
0
None
```

</ChainedSnippets>
````

And it also works.

> ```bash
> ./hello.sc -- Hello World
> 2
> Some(Hello)
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
<ChainedSnippets>

```bash
./hello.sc -- Hello World
```

```text
2
Some(Hello)
```

</ChainedSnippets>
````

> But note that the extra `--` must be added to make it work. If it is not supplied, the result is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the extra `--` must be added to make it work. If it is not supplied, the result is:
```

> ```bash
> ./hello.sc Hello World
> Hello: not found
> World: not found
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
<ChainedSnippets>

```bash
./hello.sc Hello World
```

```text
Hello: not found
World: not found
```

</ChainedSnippets>
````

> If we modify our script slightly and use the `shebang` command, we will get this effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we modify our script slightly and use the `shebang` sub-command in the header, we will get the following:```

```scala title=hello.sc
#!/usr/bin/env scala-cli shebang -S 3

println(args.size)
println(args.headOption)
```

> ```bash
> ./hello.sc Hello World
> 2
> Some(Hello)
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
<ChainedSnippets>

```bash
./hello.sc Hello World
```

```text
2
Some(Hello)
```

</ChainedSnippets>
````

> ### In command line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `shebang` and the command line
```

> Let's now see how the shebang command works in the command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's now see how the `shebang` command works straight from the command line.
```

```scala title=Main.scala 
object Main {
  def main(args: Array[String]): Unit = println(args.mkString)
}  
```

> ```bash                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
> scala-cli shebang Main.scala Hello world
> # Hello world
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
<ChainedSnippets>

```bash                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
scala-cli shebang Main.scala Hello world
```

```text
Hello world
```

</ChainedSnippets>
````

> Please note that `shebang` change in how arguments are parsed means that every options after the first input will be treated as
> an argument to the app.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
:::note
Please note that `shebang` changing how arguments are parsed means that every option after the first input will be treated as
an argument to the app.

<ChainedSnippets>

```bash
scala-cli shebang Main.scala -S 2.13 #-S 2.13 is not recognised as an option, but as app arguments
```

```text
-S2.13
```
</ChainedSnippets>
:::
````

> If we try to do the same with the run command, we get the following error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we try to do the same with the `run` sub-command, we get the following error:
```

> ```bash ignore
> scala-cli run Main.scala Hello world
> # [error]  Hello: not found
> #  : not found
> # world: not found
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
<ChainedSnippets>

```bash ignore
scala-cli run Main.scala Hello world
```

```text
[error]  Hello: not found
 : not found
world: not found
```

</ChainedSnippets>
````
